So, earlier I said,
okay, and in the options
in our ESLint wizard,
we had the choice of whether
to use it to also enforce
some formatting choices.
Like for example,
semicolons, are they good?
Are they bad?
Do we always want them?
Do we never want them?
These type of stylistic questions.
And we are not gonna use ESLint for that
because there is another tool that's like
really, really popular and very good for
this, which is called Prettier.
It makes your code prettier,
I guess is why they called it that.
So this is for, it's going to enforce
certain style constraints and
those are kinda baked into the package.
So there can be no debate on your team.
There can be nobody changing
a rule away from semicolons and
then back to semicolons and
then away like that, like dueling forces.
So if everybody has the same
exact version of Prettier,
they will have the same
exact formatting rules.
And this is intended to solve
the wasting time debating semicolons
problem cuz ain't nobody got time for
for that.
All right, so the way that we
are going to do this install, and
so remember we saw that ESLint and
VT were both installed as
developer dev dependencies,
right, development dependency.
So, that we can indicate with this
save-dev flag to npm install.
If we don't use save-dev, it's just going
to save it in our regular dependencies,
which will be included in
whatever the client gets.
And so, in this case,
we're also using a flag called save-exact,
and we'll talk about that in one second.
So, okay,
we are gonna go back to our project and
our terminal and we'll run this command.
[SOUND] [LAUGH] Okay, in the command line,
we're gonna run that command that
we just showed, and what did it do?
Because I'm printing the slides
[LAUGH] and they included that.
Okay, sorry.
Don't do that, do this.
Okay [LAUGH].
And it says, all right, I added one
package and audited a whole bunch.
[LAUGH] But I added one package and that
hopefully was the prettier that I asked
it to install, so let's go look at
package.json and see what we got.
And so now indeed I have a dev
dependency called prettier and
this is where we're gonna
now notice the difference
between that save-exact and
leaving it off.
Can anybody take a stab
at what's happening here?
What's the difference between Prettier and
ESLint Invent, Vite?
>> It doesn't have the caret up arrow, so
it's locking it to a specific
version instead of one that's close.
>> Exactly, yeah.
And so this syntax is like, all right,
which versions of this
package are acceptable to me?
And so, for example, if ESLint says,
and and Vite says, hey,
we're using five, okay?
We don't wanna get four involved because
that was a totally different major
release, which means there might
be breaking changes in five or,
there should be breaking changes in five.
And, so anything above five
hopefully it will be okay,
let anything in the fives
should will be okay.
But Prettier is saying, no, no,
I don't just want 3 point whatever,
I want 3.1.0, exactly.
And that's because the style rules might
change between different versions.
So, again, to avoid that debate and
to avoid any confusion because somebody
ran npm install a little earlier than
somebody else, we do save exact.
Okay, so now, how do we get Prettier
to make our code [LAUGH] prettier?
So the way that we could do this
kind of at the command line,
again, we could do npx prettier and
then dot,
which is going to run the Prettier syntax
checker style checker in
the current directory.
And we can also do this right flag to
just have it fix any problems it finds.
Like if I have semi colons but
the package says not to use semi colons,
get rid of the semi colons or vice versa.
So what we can do is we can
run that command With npx,
but we can also just go
straight to the adding a script
to our package.json stage and
run it that way.
So now I should be able to do npm run,
>> Format.
>> Format, yes, and again,
these are arbitrary, right?
I could have called it like,
prettify or make beautiful or
whatever I want to call it,
I'm gonna call it format.
And it's okay, look,
it did a bunch of stuff.
And it's telling me which, so again,
npm is telling me, all right,
this is the command I just ran, that's
what you told me to do in your scripts.
And then I looked at all these files.
And so for example,
I disagree with how ESLint started it's,
[LAUGH] it's default JSON file or
you have some problems in your HTML even.
So Prettier even helps us beyond
JavaScript and there are ways to configure
this if you only want it to be looking
at JavaScript files, for example, but
I'll let you all look at the docs for
that.
And it's telling me which
ones it didn't change and
the ones that are more salient
here are the ones that it did.